# Class 2 Readings

## Reading: React Lifecycle 

### Questions

- Based off the diagram, what happens first, the ‘render’ or the ‘componentDidMount’?

  - 'render' happens first

- What is the very first thing to happen in the lifecycle of React?

  - Mounting is the first thing to happen in the lifecycle.

- Put the following things in the order that they happen:
  - constructor, render, React Updates, componentDidMount, componentWillUnmount,

- What does componentDidMount do?
  - it inserts a component into the DOM

### Notes

- component lifecycle events are the methods that you are able to use as classes or functions
- they allow you to update the UI and application states
- anytime a component updates then it is rendered
- unmounting is being removed from the DOM
- constructors can be used to assign state using this.state or to bind event handle methods to an instance
- render is a required method
  - examines this.props and this.state when called
- shouldComponentUpdate() rerenders after every state change
  - you can set this to false
- componentWillUnmount() cleans up the DOM and network requests

## Video: React State Vs Props

### Video Questions

- What types of things can you pass in the props?
  - a counter
  - user title & subtitle
  
- What is the big difference between props and state?
  - props happens/must be handled outside the component and state must be handled/happens inside the component.

- When do we re-render our application?
  - when the user has changed something and it needs to update

- What are some examples of things that we could store in state?
  - state stores the thing we will be updating such as a counter
  - a form or input element

### Video Notes

- props is arguments to a function
- pass counter component what is inside the prop
- what you initialize component to render
- state is inside component
- prop is like a variable to a function
- properly think what will be handled by the component to distinguish when to use state & props

## Things I want to know more about

- I'm looking forward to learning other ways to re-render and use components other than a counter/ forms
- How did i know which JS file to write this in? Does it all happen in the App.js?
- Is local storage implement the same way in react?
