# Class 3 Readings

## Reading: Passing Functions as Props

### Questions

- What does .map() return?
  - an array
- If I want to loop through an array and display each value in JSX, how do I do that in React?
  - you would use a map() method
- Each list item needs a unique ____.
  - key
- What is the purpose of a key?
  - to help REact identify which items have changed, added, or removed

### Notes

- map() functions takes in an array of numbers
- in react transforming arrays into lists of elements is nearly identical
- Rendering components:

- *code examples taken from readings*

```js
const numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
const listItems = numbers.map((number) =>
  <li>{number}</li>
);
```

- don't use indexes as keys
- correct key usage:

```js
function ListItem(props) {
  // Correct! There is no need to specify the key here:
  return <li>{props.value}</li>;
}

function NumberList(props) {
  const numbers = props.numbers;
  const listItems = numbers.map((number) =>
    // Correct! Key should be specified inside the array.
    <ListItem key={number.toString()} value={number} />
  );
  return (
    <ul>
      {listItems}
    </ul>
  );
}

const numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
ReactDOM.render(
  <NumberList numbers={numbers} />,
  document.getElementById('root')
);
```

## Reading: The Spread Operator

### Questions 2

- What is the spread operator?
  - useful and quick syntax for adding items to arrays, combining arrays or objects, and spreading an array out into a function's arguments with (...)
- List 4 things that the spread operator can do.
  - it can spread an array into separate arguments
  - copying an array
  - combining arrays
  - adding an item to a list
- Give an example of using the spread operator to combine two arrays.

```js
const nums = ['1', '2', '3']
const letters= [...nums]
const lettersAndNums = [...nums,...letters]
console.log(...lettersAndNums)

```

- Give an example of using the spread operator to add a new item to an array.

```js
nums[0] = '4'
console.log(...[...nums,'...',...letters])

```

- Give an example of using the spread operator to combine two objects into one.

```js

const objectOne = {hello}
const objectTwo = {world}
const objectThree = {...objectOne, ...objectTwo, bye}
console.log(objectThree)

```

### Notes 2

- ... is useful fof working with arrays and objects in Javascript
- ES6
- useful for adding an item to react state
- properties whose name conflicts will be lost
- great time saver!

## Video: How to Pass Functions Between Components

### Questions 3

- In the video, what is the first step that the developer does to pass functions between components?
  - create the function where the state is
- In your own words, what does the increment function do?
  - it increments the value of the component and returns the value.
- How can you pass a method from a parent component into a child component?
  - you pass it like any other prop as 
- How does the child component invoke a method that was passed to it from a parent component?
  - this.props.increment()

### Video Notes

- increment = (name) => {}

## Things I want to know more about

- better examples of implementing ...

- [Intro to react](https://reactjs.org/tutorial/tutorial.html)
- [Lifting State Up](https://reactjs.org/docs/lifting-state-up.html)
