# Class 4 Readings

## Reading: React Docs - Forms

### Questions

- What is a ‘Controlled Component’?
  - a component that renders forms elements and controls them by keeping the form data in the component's state.

- Should we wait to store the users responses from the form into state when they submit the form OR should we update the state with their responses as soon as they enter them? Why.
  - Store it when they submit the form so it can be accurately referenced to and it can be passed to other elements.

- How do we target what the user is entering if we have an event handler on an input field?
  - you add a name attribute to each element

### Notes

- In React, mutable state is typically kept in the state property of components, and only updated with setState()..
- the react component that render a form controls hat happens in that form on a subsequent user input
- < select> creates a drop down  list.
- you can pass an array into the value attribute, allowing you to select multiple options in the select tag.

## Reading: The Conditional (Ternary) Operator Explained

### Questions 2

- Why would we use a ternary operator?
  - to make code cleaner on one line. 

- Rewrite the following statement using a ternary statement:

``` js

if(x===y){
  console.log(true);
} else {
  console.log(false);
}

//rewrite:
let result = ((x===y) ? true : false;)
```

### Notes 2

- condition ? value if true : value if false
- condition is what youre testing
  - result should be true or false
- ? separates conditional from true
- colon : if false any code after this is executes.

```js
let person = {
  name: 'tony',
  age: 20,
  driver: null
};
person.driver = ((person.age >=16) ? 'Yes' : 'No';

/*return*/ person.driver = (true ? 'Yes' : 'No';)

```

## Things I want to know more about

- better examples of ternary. I'm not totally sure I got the question one correct.

- [React Bootstrap-forms](https://react-bootstrap.github.io/forms/overview/)
- [React Docs- conditionalrendering](https://reactjs.org/docs/conditional-rendering.html)
