# Class 5 Readings

## Reading 1: React Docs - [Thinking in React](https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html)

### Questions

- What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?
  - means that the component should only do one thing. 

- What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?
  - it renders the user's browser without the need for server sie processing.

- Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?
- you need to make your UI interactive using state

- What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?
  - Is it passed in from a parent via props? If so, it probably isn’t state.
  - Does it remain unchanged over time? If so, it probably isn’t state.
  - Can you compute it based on any other state or props in your component? If so, it isn’t state.

- How can you identify where state needs to live?
  - you need to identity a common own component where something needs to render based on the state.

### Notes

- don't use state to build a static version because it is reserved for interactivity.
- it's easier to go top-down, but on large projects going bottom up
- identify every component that renders soemthing based on that stae.
- find a common component
- either common owner or another component higher up should own the state

## Reading 2: [Higher-Order Functions](https://eloquentjavascript.net/05_higher_order.html#h_xxCc98lOBK)

### Questions 2

- What is a “higher-order function”?
  - functions that operate on other functions by taking them in as arguments or returning them

- Explore the greaterThan function as defined in the reading. In your own words, what is line 2 of this function doing?
  - I think line two is returning m because it is greater than n.

- Explain how either map or reduce operates, with regards to higher-order functions.
  - it applies a given function to each element like a lit or a set which returls an array.

### Notes 2

### things I want to know more about

- I'm having a hard time with the second reading and the way it's written, sso I want to look more into higher-order functions. 