# Class 5 Readings

## Reading 1: An introduction to Node.js

### Questions

- What is node.js?
  - a Javascript runtime built on Chrome's V8 Javascript engine

- In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine?
  - It is a open-source JS engine that runs in Google Chrome. It is responsible for compiling code that your computer can execute.

- What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime?
  - It means that Node.js is a program we use to execute JAvascript on our computer. It is what is processing the code.

- What is npm?
  - npm is a package manager that comes bundled with node.

- What version of node are you running on your machine?
  - v16.13.1

- What version of npm are you running on your machine?
  - 8.1.2

- What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’?
  - npm install -g jshint

- What is node used for?
  - it is designed to automate the process of developing a modern JS application.

## Reading 2: 6 Reasons for Pair Programming

### Questions 2
  
- What are the 6 reasons for pair programming?
  - Greater efficiency
  - Engaged Collaboration
  - Learning from fellow students
  - Social skills
  - Job interview readiness
  - Work environment readiness

- In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial?
  - I have found that the engaged collaboration has been both fun and a really greatt way for me to learn and feel confident with what I know. I have learned so much from my peers and feel really productive when I am working with another person. 

- How does pair programming work?
  - It involves a Driver who is typing and the only one with hands on the keyboard. The Navigators uses their words to guide the Driver but does not provide any direct input to the computer. Also scans for typos and bugs.

### Things I want to know more about

- [Axios Docs](https://www.npmjs.com/package/axios)
- [MDN sync and await](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Asynchronous/Promises)