# Class 11 Readings

## Reading: NoSql vs Sql

### Questions

- Differences between Sql and NoSql: 
  - SQL databases are called Relational Databases
  - NoSql databases are called non-relational or disturbed database.
  - SQL are table bases
  - NoSQL are document bases
  - SQL have predefined scheme
  - NoSQl have dynamic schema for unstructured data
  - SQL uses structured query language
  - NoSQL queries are focused on documents
  - SQL is not better fit for hierarchical data storage.
  - NoSql fits better because it follows the key-value pair way of sotring data similar to JSON.

- What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?
  - Table based data

- Give a real world example.
  - tables, graphs, data with numbers

- What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?
  - document based data

- Give a real world example.
  - like Json data i think. 

- Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?
  - NoSQL

- Which type of database is best for scalability?
  - SQL

## Video: SQL vs NoSQL

### Questions

- What does SQL stand for?
  - Structure Query Language

- What is a relational database?
  - Product tables, and connecting data to users

- What type of structure does a relational database work with?
  - table, column, row, and products

- What is a ‘schema’?
  - the plan or how to approach the data

- What is a NoSQL database?
  - non tabular database

- How does it work?
  - doesn't have a schema, you can add new data and can grab more dta as you go.

- What is inside of a Mongo database?
  - data requests

- Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.
  - MongoDB because there ae no schema or relations. This allos you to add data as you want, and you keep all the data in one place like one order fo example.

- What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?
  - you can't rely on the record because there is no schema.
