# Class 15 Readings

## Reading 1: What is OAuth

### Questions

- What is OAuth?
  - A open-standard authorization protocol that shows how unrelated servers and services authenticated access to their assets without sharing credentials.

- Give an example of what using OAuth would look like.
  - using an email like google or facebook to sign into another application.

- How does OAuth work? What are the steps that it takes to authenticate the user?
  1. website connects to second site and provides user's identity.
  2. second site generates a token
  3. client's software provides the token and secret for their authorization unique to the person involved.
  4. if not authenticated to provider, the client maybe be asked to authenticate. 
  5. the user approves transaction

- What is OpenID?
  - An authentication for logging into machines.

### Questions 2

- What is the difference between authorization and authentication?
  - authentication determines who the user is, authorization determines what they will have access to.

- What is Authorization Code Flow?
  - authorization code is exchanged for an access token

- What is Authorization Code Flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)?
  - A secure way for an app that is calling API access.

- What is Implicit Flow with Form Post?
  - an alternative to authorization code flow

- What is Client Credentials Flow?
  - a authentication and authorization flow for machines

- What is Device Authorization Flow?
  - machine authorization for input-constrained devices

- What is Resource Owner Password Flow?
  - it requests that users provide credential using a form. 
  