# HTML & JS Readings

## HTML Book

### Chapter 3: Lists

#### Types of lists in HTML

- ordered list: each item in a list is numbered
  - < ol>
  - < li> each item in a list is placed between this tag/closing

- unordered list: list that begins with a bullet point
  - < ul>
  - < li> also placed between opening and closing

- definition list: made up of a set of terms with detentions of terms
  - < d1>
  - < dt> used to contain the term being defined
  - < dd> contain the definition

- nested lists: you can put a second list inside a < li> element

## Chapter 13: Boxes

### Making boxes

- box dimensions: width, height
  - percentages: size of box is relative to the size of the browser window, or if encased within another box
  - ems: size of the box is based on the text within it. becoming more popular with different sized screens.

- limiting width: min-width, max-width
  - expand and shrink to fit user's screen.
  - max-width can be used to ensure lines of text do not appear to wide within a big browser and min-width so it's not too narrow

- limiting height: min-height, max-height
  - same way you'd min or max width.

- Overflowing Content: overflow
  - property that tells the browser to do if the content in the box is larger than the box itself.
  - hidden: hides extra content that doesn't fit
  - scroll: adds a scrollbar to the box so user can see missing content
  - handy for when browsers adjust size of text to appear smaller or larger

- Border, Margin & Padding
  1. border: every box has a border even if not visible.
  2. margin: sits outside the edge of the border
  3. padding: space between the border of a box and the content in the box.

- White Space & Vertical Margin
  - the space between items on a page. 
  - space between boxes, or border round text, or two boxes next to each other

- Border Width: border-width
  - control width of a border
  - pixels or: thin, medium, thick
  - you can control the individual sides od the borders
    - border-top-width
    - border-right-width
    - border-left-width
    - border-bottom-width

- Border Style: border-style
  - solid
  - dotted
  - dashed
  - groove
  - ridge
  - inset
  - outset
  - hidden/none

- Border Color: border-color
  - you can individually change each side of a border in clockwise order
    - border-top-color
    - border-right-color
    -border-bottom-color
    -border-left-color

- Shorthand Border: border
  - specify width, style, color

- Padding: padding
  - specify how much space is in between content of an element and it's border
  - you can specify each side top, right, bottom, left in clockwise order

- Margin: margin
  - controls gap between boxes.

- Centering Content
  - set left-margin and right-margin to auto
  - you must set a width for the box
  - the browser will put an equal gap on the sides of the box.

- Change Inline/Block: display
  - allows you to turn an inline element into a block-level element
  - inline means they sit alongside each other
    - values:
      - inline- causes a block-level element to act like an inline element
      - block- causes an inline element to act like a block-level element
      - inline-block- causes block-level element to flow like an inline element while retaining block-level features.
      - none- hides an element from a page

- CSS3: Border Images: border-image
  - applies an image to the border or any box.
    - the box must have a border width
    - requires:
      1. the URL of the image
      2. Where to slice the image
      3. What to do with the straight edges
    - possible values:
      - stretch
      - repeat
      - round: like repeat but scales the tiles so they fit exactly.
    - -moz-border-image & -webkit-border-image help earlier versions of chrome and safari to run

- CSS3: Box Shadows: box-shadow
  - adds a drop shadow around a box
  - must use the first two of these values:
    1. Horizontal offset: negative value will shadow to the left
    2. vertical offset: negative value will shadow to the top
    3. blur distance: shadow is a line like a border
    4. spread of shadow: positive value will expand shadow in all directions, and negative value will contract it.

- CSS3: Rounded Corners: border-radius
  - CSS3 introduces the ability to create rounded corners on any box
  - border-radius
  - pixels

- CSS3: Elliptical Shapes: border-radius
  - to create more complex shapes
  - this will create a border that is wider than tall:
  border-radius: 80px 50px;
  you can target one corner by using:
  border-top-left-radius: 80px 50px;

## JS Book

### Chapter 2: Basic JavaScript Instructions

#### Giving Instructions

- Arrays
  - a special type of variable that stores a list of values
  - consider using when you're working with a list or a set of values that are related to each other.

- Creating an Array
  - use var followed by the keyword you're using for the array example: colors;
- array literal:
  - you can store a string, a number, and a Boolean all in the same array
- each item in an array is given a value called an index.
  - used to access specific items in the array.

### Chapter 4: Decisions & Loops

#### Evaluations Decisions Loops

- Evaluations: analyze values in script to determine whether or not they match expected results
- Decisions: using the results of evaluations you can decide the path your script should go down
- Loops: occasions where you want to perform the same set of steps repeatedly

- Switch Statements
  - starts with a variable called the switch value
  - ech case indicates a possible value for the variable and the code that should run if the variable matches the value.
  example:
  switch (level){
    case 'one':
       title = 'level 1';
       break;
    case 'two':
       title = 'level 2';
       break;
  }

- the purpose of a switch statement is to present the user with a different message depending on which level they are at.
  - the message is stored in variable msg

- Truthy & Falsy Values
  - Falsy: treated as if they are false. Can also be treated as the number 0
  - Truthy: treated as if they are true. Can also be treated as the number 1

- Loops
  - check a condition
  - if it returns true, a code block will run. it will repeat until the return is false.
  - types of loops:
    1. For: runs a specific number or times. condition is usually counter which tells how many times to run.
    2. While: if you don't know how many times code should run. the condition cn be something other than a counter and the condition will still run.
    3. Do While: do...while is will always run the statements inside the curly brackets at least once even if the condition is false.
    example:
    for (var i =0; i < 10; i++){
        document.write(i);
    }
- Loop Counters:
  - a for loop uses a counter as a condition
  - Condition is made up of three statements
    1. initialization: create a variable and set it to 0. var i = 0;
    2. condition: loop should continue to tun until the counter reaches number i < 10;
    3. update: every time the loop gas run, it adds one to the counter i++

- Using for Loops
  - often used to loop through the items in an array
  - starts with a for keyword and then contains the condition inside the parentheses as long as the counter is less than the total number of items in the array.

- While Loops
  - runs as long as the condition in the parentheses is true.
- Do While Loops
  - the statement in the code block come before the condition.
