# Read 07

## Article

### Domain Modeling

- process of creating a conceptual model in code for a specific problem.
- example from this reading:
var EpicFailVideo = function(epicRating, hasAnimals) {
  this.epicRating = epicRating;
  this.hasAnimals = hasAnimals;
}

var parkourFail = new EpicFailVideo(7, false);
var corgiFail = new EpicFailVideo(4, true);

console.log(parkourFail);
console.log(corgiFail);

- generate random numbers example:
var EpicFailVideo = function(epicRating, hasAnimals) {
  this.epicRating = epicRating;
  this.hasAnimals = hasAnimals;
}

EpicFailVideo.prototype.generateRandom = function(min, max) {
  return Math.floor(Math.random() * (max - min + 1)) + min;
}

var parkourFail = new EpicFailVideo(7, false);
var corgiFail = new EpicFailVideo(4, true);

console.log(parkourFail.generateRandom(1, 5));
console.log(corgiFail.generateRandom(1, 5));

- link to this REPO https://github.com/codefellows/domain_modeling#domain-modeling

## HTML

### Chapter 6: Tables

#### Table Structure

- < table>
- < tr> - star of each row
- < td> - each cell of a table
- < th> - table heading
- colspan attribute can be used on < th> or < td> that indicates how many columns the cell should run across
- spanning rows - indicate how many rows a cell should span down the table
- < thead> head should sit inside the < thead> element
- < tbody> body should sit inside the < tbody> element
- < tfoot> foot inside 

## JS Book

### Chapter 3: Functions, Methods, and Objects

#### Objects

- var hotel = new Object(); is how to create a new object
- to update the value of properties, use dot notation or square brackets.
- to delete a property use the delete keyword.
- if the property you are attempting to updat edoesnt exist it will be added to the object.

#### creating many objects: constructor notation

function Hotel(name, rooms, booked) {
  this.name = name;
  this.rooms = rooms;
  this.booked = booked;
  // properties ^
  this.checkAvailability = function () {
    return this.rooms - this.booked;
  };
}
method ^

- you create instances of an object using the constructor functions. 
- new keyword followed by a call to the function creates a new object.

- *example of adding and removing properties PAGE 112
- *recap creating objects PAGE 113

##### THIS

- commonly used inside functions and objects
- where the function si declared alters what this means. 
- 115&117 storing data, array recap. 

- arrays are a special type of object.

#### three groups of buil in objects

- three sets of built in objects offer a diffrent range of tools that help you write scripts. 
- DOM create a model of current webs page

- window object
- lists of preperties on page 124 & example on page 125
- 