# 01 Reading Notes

## Pain vs. Suffering

- "Suffering is pain with purpose." Something that has really helped me cope with the intenseness of this course has been remembering that is is temporary, and the pay off at the end of this journey  will be well worth it. These questions from the reading I will be referring to throughout this course.
- What’s your perspective?
- Why are you doing this?
- Do you want what comes at the end of this journey?
- Are you doing this for you?

## Beginners Guide to Big O

- Big O Notation is used o describe the complexity of an algorithm.
- O(1) describes an algorithm that executes i the same time regardless of input
- O(N) describes an algorithm whose performance will grow linearly
- O(N2) represents an algorithm whose performance is directly relate to the square of the size of the data set. 
- O(2^N) algorithm whose growth doubles with each input set.
- Binary searches is a technique used to to search data sets.
- it selects the middle element of a data set
- returns a value higher than the value of the element

## Names and Values

- python works like other languages
- you can get far without totally understand whats going on
- assignment never copies data
- references can be more than just names
- don't mutate values
- better to make new lists!
  - this will make code easier

## A friendly intro to Big O Notation

- Linked list 
  - nodes don't have to be next to each other
  - Singly is the simplest type of linked list
  - you can only move forward
  - the way a linked list ends, the last node points to null
  - Doubly linked list you can go forward and back
  - Circular linked list doesn't have a node that points to node at the end
  - it points back to the beginning of the list
- Big O Notation evaluates how efficient something is
- a stack is when you're adding place only in one place, so a linked list would work for that
- linked lists exist as a way of implementing more common ways to adding data
