# Class 5 Readings Notes

## Readings

### Definitions

#### Big O: Analysis of Algorithm Efficiency

- *Big O*: notation used the describe the efficiency of an algorithm or function. The worst case analysis of algorithm efficiency

- *Running Time*: amount of time a function needs to complete

- *Memory Space*: amount of memory resources a function uses to store data and instructions

- *Input Size*: the size of the parameter values that are read by the algorithm.

- *Working Space*: the creation of variables and reference points as our function performs calculations.

- *Constant Complexity*: no matter what inputs are thrown at the algorithm, it always used the same amount of time or space

- *Logarithmic Complexity*: represents function that sees a decrease in the rate of complexity growth, the greater our value of n

- *Linearithmic Complexity*: describe a growth rate of n by lgn. This represents complexity that grows with n, but also by lgn. Linearithmic functions grow faster tha input size n.

- *Quadratic Complexity*: an algorithm with complexity growing at a rate of input size n multiplied by n. Often seen in algorithms that have nested loops which perform iterative recursive logic on all values of n and immediately iterate or recurse again for each value n

- *Cubic Complexity*: a higher degree of what makes the quadratic complexity grow at such a high rate.

- *Exponential Complexity*: represents rapid growing complexity, such as our input size n.

- *Factorial Complexity*: time and space requirements grow extremely fast relative to input size

- *Worst Case*: the efficiency for the worst possible input

- *Best Case*: efficiency for best possible input size

- *Average Case*: efficiency for typical or random input size

- *Big Omega*: Best case

- *Big Theta*: Typical or random case

### Linked Lists

- *Linked List*: a data structure that contains nodes that links/points to the next node in the list. You cannot use a foreach or a for loop. 

- *Next*: the ext property leads up to the next node and allows us to extract the data properly. We use a while() loop which will allow us to check the Next node in the list is not null.

- *NullReferenceException*: error for when we traverse a node that is null. The program will crash or end.

- *Singly*: the number of references the node has. There is only one reference and the reference point to the next node in a linked list. Simplest form of linked list

- *Doubly*: reference to the next and previous node

- *Node*: individual items/links that live in a linked list. Each node contains data for each link.

- *Head*: reference type of Node to first node. Always first node in LinkedList

- *Current*: reference type of Node to the node that is currently looked at.

- *Includes*: checks if our LinkedList contains a specific value. The Big O time would be O(n) because at its worst case, the node will be the last node in the linked list. n represents the number of nodes in the linked list. The Big O space would be O(1) because there is no additional space being used than what is already given to us with the linked list input.

- *Linear Data structures*: there is a sequence and an order to how they are constructed and traversed

- *Static Data Structure*: needs all of its resources to be allocated when the structure is created. It always need a given size and amount of memory.

- *Dynamic Data Structure*: can shrink and grow in memory. Does not need a set amount of memory to be allocated in order to exist.
