# Class 6 Readings Notes

## Readings

### How to Use Random Module

- the random module provides access to functions that support any operations.
- Randit function which accept to two parameters:
  - a lowest number and a higher number
  - the first value should be less than the second

```{python}
import random
print random.randint(0,5)
```

- this will output 1,2,3,4, or 5

- Random
  - if you want a larger number you can multiply it
  - example: random number 0 and 100
  - random.random() * 100

- Choice
  - generate a random value from the sequence sequence
  - random.choice(['red', 'black', 'green'])
  - choice can be used to choose ranomd element from a list

```{python}
import random
myList = [2, 109, False, 10, "Lorem", 482, "Ipsum"]
random.choice(myList)
```

- Shuffle
  - shuffles elements in list in place so they are in random order

```{python}
from random import shuffle
x = [[i] for i in range(10)]
shuffle(x)
Output:
# print x  gives  [[9], [2], [7], [0], [4], [5], [3], [1], [8], [6]]
# of course your results will vary
```

- Randrange
  - generate a randomly selected element from range(start, stop, step)

```{python}
from random import shuffle
x = [[i] for i in range(10)]
shuffle(x)
Output:
# print x  gives  [[9], [2], [7], [0], [4], [5], [3], [1], [8], [6]]
# of course your results will vary
```

### What is Risk Analysis

- Risk anaylisis is the process of identifying the risks in aplications or software that you built and prioritizing them to test
- using risk analysis at the beginning of a project highlights the porteltial probelm areas. 

- [Risk Assessment](https://www.edureka.co/blog/risk-analysis-in-software-testing/)

### Test Coverage

- test coverage is used for finding untested parts of a codebase
- High coverage numbers are too easy to read with low quality testing
- thoughtful testing would expect coverage percentage in 80s or 90s
- you are doing enough testing if you rarely get bugs that escape into production AND you rarely hesitant to change some code for fear it will cause production bugs. 

- you're testing too  much if you can remove tests and still have enough
- tests can slow you down
- check for duplications in your code

### Dependency Injection:

- a technique whereby one object supplies the dependencies of another object. 
- dependency in programming
  - when class A uses functionality of class B
  - class A has dependencies of class B
- three types of dependency injections
  - constructor injection: the dependencies are provided through a class constructor.
  - setter injection: the client exposes a setter method that the injector uses to inject the dependency.
  - interface injection: the dependency provides an injector method that will inject the dependency into any client passed to it. Clients must implement an interface that exposes a setter method that accepts the dependency.

- dependency injection has the responsibility to:
  - create objects
  - know which classes require those objects
  - provide them all those objects