# Class 19 Readings Notes

## Readings

### Regex Tutorial

- used to check whether or ont a pattern exists
- import re
- compile()
- search() scans through the given string or sequence looking for the first location where the regex produces a match
- findall()
- sub()
- split()
- match()
- r is raw string literal
- -A matches any single character except the newline character
- $- matches the end of the string
- [abc] matches a or b or c
- [a-zA-Z0-9] matches any letter from a-z to A-Z or 0-9
- \w Lowercase w matches any single letter digit or underscore
- \W matches any character not part of \w
- \s lowercase matches whitespace character
- \S matches any character not apart of lowercase
- \d - Lowercase d. Matches decimal digit 0-9.
- \D - Uppercase d. Matches any character that is not a decimal digit.
- \t - Lowercase t. Matches tab.
- \n - Lowercase n. Matches newline.
- \r - Lowercase r. Matches return.
- \A - Uppercase a. Matches only at the start of the string. Works across multiple lines as well.
- \Z - Uppercase z. Matches only at the end of the string.
- \b - Lowercase b. Matches only the beginning or end of the word.
- + checks if the preceding character appears one or more times starting from that position
- * checks if the character appears zero or more times starting from that position
- ? - Checks if the preceding character appears exactly zero or one time starting from that position.
- {x} - Repeat exactly x number of times.
- {x,} - Repeat at least x times or more.
- {x, y} - Repeat at least x times but no more than y times.
- group feature of regex allows you to pick up parts of the matching text
- [Regex Expressions](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#re-syntax)

## Video

- automatically checking what type of file something is and move it to a folder
- keeps downloads clutter free
- can also rename the files
- make subfolders for dates for example
- optimizes irganization
- you can autmatically open youtube when your favorite user uploads a new video
- caluclate compoinded interes

- [video reference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qbW6FRbaSl0&t=69s)
